CeramicStudio/Webplayground #30 - Add IDX Quickstart (#112)
ceramicnetwork/docs: docs/tools/idx/quickstart.md

# Quickstart

> Get started exploring what's possible with IDX using the [IDX SDK](../reference/idx.md). For usage in a Command Interface, you will need to [install the IDX CLI](../reference/cli.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get started exploring what's possible with IDX using the [IDX SDK](../reference/idx.md). For usage in a Command Line Interface, you will need to [install the IDX CLI](../reference/cli.md).
```

!!! warning ""

>     :octicons-alert-16: IDX is in alpha, Libraries may be unstable and APIs are subject to change. Data created on IDX during alpha will *not* be portable to production. Please share what you're working on and report any issues in the [IDX Discord](https://chat.idx.com){:target="_blank"}.

Reviewer: woah. Do our users building production apps on IDX know that we're not guaranteeing their profiles will persist going forward?

Author: This is a direct copy from our other IDX page. I'm not certain on if this warning is more of a Ceramic TestNet warning or if it's an IDX problem. @PaulLeCam could you weigh in?

Reviewer 2: We've had this messaging in the docs for as long as I can remember, mostly warning that until IDX reaches a v1 version there can be breaking changes.

Author: Alright, we'll keep it then.

!!! warning ""
    :octicons-stop-16: If you haven't completed the Ceramic quickstart some information here may not make complete sense. We recommend coming here after you've completed the [Ceramic JavaScript Client Quickstart](../../build/javascript/quick-start.md).

## **Prerequisites**

> The IDX SDK requires [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/){:target="_blank"} v14+ and npm v6+ (usually installed with Node.js). Make sure both are installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IDX SDK requires [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/){:target="_blank"} v14 and npm v6 (usually installed with Node.js). Make sure both are installed.
```

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure today Ceramic only works on *exactly* node v14 and npm v6.  Pretty sure we've had issues reported by the community using newer versions.

Author: I think that it works on other versions, but it needs some extra config. I'm not opposed to making the change regardless and having it a bit more specific will minimize the questions users have.

> On Linux you will also need the `libsecret` library to be installed, as [instructed here](https://github.com/atom/node-keytar#on-linux).

Reviewer 2: The `libsecret` dependency is specific to the CLI, it shouldn't be needed when using the library.

## **Step 1: Install the IDX SDK**

=== "Command"

    ```bash
    npm i @ceramicstudio/idx @ceramicnetwork/http-client
    ```

> You will need to connect to a Ceramic node. The following is an example of connecting to a our Clay TestNet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to connect to a Ceramic node. The following is an example of connecting to the Clay Testnet via the public gateway node hosted by 3BoxLabs.
```

Reviewer: I don't think I've ever seen the "n" in Testnet capitalized before?  Not 100% confident on that though

Author: That might just be a me thing. Reasonable grammar fixes though.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript

>     import CeramicClient from '@ceramicnetwork/http-client'

Reviewer 2: The IDX lib should also be imported here, no?

    const API_URL = 'https://gateway-clay.ceramic.network'

>     const ceramic = new CeramicClient(API_URL)

Reviewer 2: There should be an extra line to create the IDX instance, no?

    ```

## **Step 2: Query a Record**
Let's query a [record](../../learn/glossary.md#record) that stores a [basic profile](../../guides/definitions/default.md#basic-profile).As you'll see below, we are looking up the user ID: `did:key:z6MkuEd4fm7qNq8hkmWFM1NLVBAXa4t2GcNDdmVzBrRm2DNm`.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    await idx.get(
        'basicProfile', 
        'did:key:z6MkuEd4fm7qNq8hkmWFM1NLVBAXa4t2GcNDdmVzBrRm2DNm'
    )
    ```

=== "Output"

    ```JavaScript
    // Note: this record is live and may not return exactly what you see below.
    {
      name: "Paul",
      residenceCountry: "IE"
    }
    ```

## **Step 3: Create a DID**

> The IDX SDK does not support DID Creation, however we've built [3ID-Connect](../../authentication/3id-did/3id-connect.md) to allow web apps to create a DID based off of your wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IDX SDK does not support DID Creation, however we've built [3ID-Connect](../../authentication/3id-did/3id-connect.md) to allow web apps to create a DID based off of the user's blockchain wallet.
```

## **Step 4: Create a Record**

Use the `idx.set()` function to set data to a [record](../../learn/glossary.md#record) for the currently authenticated DID. In this example we're passing the same `basicProfile` alias as above. This will let us record data corresponding to the default basic profile defintion. The second part of the function is the new content we want to set. Finally, the last part of the function is optional but it is the ID that you are trying to set. If nothing is provided it will default to your authenticated DID.

=== "Output"

    ```JavaScript
    await idx.set('basicProfile', {
      name: '<Your Name>'
    })
    ```

## **Step 5: Query Your Record**

Use the `idx.get()` to query your newly created basic profile record.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    await idx.get('basicProfile')
    ```

=== "Output"

>     ```JSON

Reviewer 2: Output should be JS here when using the library.
